Managing Change Practices
=========================

Choosing which practices to use for managing change are heavily dependent on the
impact the change may have on the current development process. For changes with
small impacts on the development, **Daily meetings** can be used to bring the
issue and change to the team. For changes that are large, but are not totally
disruptive to the development process, adding the change to **Backlogs** can be
effective for future development and planning in sprint planning meetings.

 

Daily Meetings
--------------

For any small potential changes that may not have a huge impact on the
development process that may occur, they can be easily managed with having daily
meetings throughout the development process. Daily meetings traditionally
consist of sharing with members of the team and stakeholders on discussing what
was completed, any problems and what needs to be completed. This gives
opportunities for any changes that have been encountered by anyone involved in
the meetings to bring it up during meetings and have it dealt with accordingly,
with everyone’s knowledge and approval.

 

Product Backlog
---------------

For all changes, a product backlog can be used to track all changes, so that all
stakeholders are able to view it and in the next sprint it can be brought up for
discussion. A Product backlog is produced at the start of planning a project,
which contains a collection of prioritized requirements which are done by
negotiations between stakeholders. As “Scrum’s ability to respond to change has
been one of its strongest assets in this environment and the backlog’s ability
to evolve will make it a valuable addition to the team’s process” (Dulock &
Long, 2015). So all changes would have no real impact on current development.
All changes would be recorded for them to be easily tracked and for them to be
brought up in the next sprint planning meetings to address them. (Hazrati, 2004)

 

Reference
---------

Hazrati, V. (2008). Managing Change requests in Scrum. Retrieved from
http://tolerosolutions.com/5-ways-agile-scrum-can-help-change-management/

 

Dulock, M. & Long, H (2015). Digital collections are a sprint, Not a Marathon:
Adapting Scrum Project Management Techniques to Library Digital Initiatives.
Information technology and Libraries, Vol 34, No 4.

<http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.aut.ac.nz/10.6017/ital.v34i4.5869> 
