Managing Change Tools
=====================

Managing Change within a software development team refers to approaches used by
the team to change the use of resources, possible requirements of the product or
any changes to the process of developing.

The possible tools that can be used in accordance to the Managing Change
Practices stated in the Project Practice Guide, are using and establishing
sprints, holding daily-stand up meetings and using a product backlog.

**Establishing Sprints: **

Retrospectives are used in sprints, which are established early on in Scrum
which allow the team to make incremental progress, whilst tracking, thus
“maximizing the development team’s efforts to manage changes effectively long
term” (Span, 2015). By establishing sprints, the team will able to foresee any
changes that could potentially occur and possibly try and prevent the changes or
plan ahead to face the change more effectively. As sprints are in fixed lengths
the use of retrospective practice would be very effective, handling all issues
and any changes as stated in the Project practice guide.

**Daily stand-up meetings**

As stated in the project practice guide about communication being a great part
in managing changes, a tool available in Scrum is having daily stand-up meetings
before commencing work daily. Meetings will typically be 15 mins in length and
each member would be required to attend to share what they did after the
previous meeting and what they expect to do before the next meeting. By using
daily meetings, changes within the project would be able to be commenced with
everyone’s knowledge. As meetings are held before work is commenced, addressing
the status of a change would possibly produce any help or tips which will
greatly benefit the work on the change for the day.

**Product Backlog**

A product backlog is a log of development work to be done in the form of
requirements for the project which also contains story points and priority
points which change often. By changing the product backlog according to a
change, the backlog helps changes to be carried out and and planned out more
effectively. As “Scrum’s ability to respond to change has been one of its
strongest assets in this environment and the backlog’s ability to evolve will
make it a valuable addition to the team’s process” (Dulock & Long, 2015).

Reference
---------

Dulock, M. & Long, H (2015). Digital collections are a sprint, Not a Marathon:
Adapting Scrum Project Management Techniques to Library Digital Initiatives.
Information technology and Libraries, Vol 34, No 4.

<http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.aut.ac.nz/10.6017/ital.v34i4.5869> 

 

Span, S. (2015). Organizational Change, Strategy. Retrieved from
http://tolerosolutions.com/5-ways-agile-scrum-can-help-change-management/
