Planning and Tracking Tools
===========================

 

The use of tools to be used in the practices stated in the practice guide for
planning and tracking include:

-   **Scrum Boards (Trello)**

-   **Online-Real-time burndown charts (Excel Sheets)**

-   **Online repository (Google Drive, Github**)

-   **Planning Poker online/Standard Poker Cards**

Because of the nature of this case study, no budget has been stated, so these
recommendations are assuming no limit on the amount of budget for use during
development.

 

Scrum Boards
------------

A scrum board is a board that tracks work for an entire development process, by
splitting work into three categories: To do, In Progress and Done. A scrum board
traditionally consists of burndown charts and backlogs which contain each piece
of work as cards. Each piece of work traditionally has the effort, priorities
and the work that is required to be done. As work is completed or worked on,
they move categories until all work that were in To Do has moved all to Done. If
a team is located and work at the same location a physical scrum board is much
more beneficial as the team will be constantly exposed to it, constantly
reminding the team what is happening. Otherwise online resources like Trello can
be used effectively as a scrum board. (Scrum Board - Scrum Inc, n.d)

 

Real-time burndown chart
------------------------

If a team is located and work at the same location a physical real-time burndown
chart on the scrum board would be much more beneficial, because as like Scrum
boards, being constantly exposed to it will constantly remind if they are behind
schedule or not. Otherwise an online resource like “Excel Sheets” on Google
Drive can be utilized, where all changes are constantly updated, so everyone
with access will be able to view the charts in real-time.

 

Online Repository
-----------------

If a team is located and work at the same location a physical repository like
product backlogs and sprint backlogs can be created on the scrum board which
would be much more beneficial, because as like Scrum boards, being constantly
exposed to it will constantly remind members if they are completing tasks as
planned. Otherwise an online resource like “Google Docs” on Google Drive can be
utilized, where all changes are constantly updated, so everyone with access will
be able to view the documents in real-time. However, as dynamic as backlogs are,
they do not change frequently, so another online option is Github, where code is
usually stored, but it can also store backlogs in the form of documents, and
version control can be easily done.

 

Planning Poker online/Standard Poker Cards
------------------------------------------

A team can use the practice; planning poker in the form of an online game or
with standard poker cards. The practice is executed with members of a team to
each have select cards like for example, the Fibonacci sequence of cards in each
of their hands. These cards can then be played when a user story is called, to
determine what each member thinks the effort of the user story should be. Online
Planning Poker is much easier for groups of more than 4, as a standard poker
deck only contains 4 of the same cards in each deck.

 
-

References
----------

(n.d). Scrum Board - Scrum Inc. Retrieved From
https://www.scruminc.com/scrum-board/
