What is Scrum
=============

Scrum is an agile framework for completing projects that are formalized for
software development projects (Mederios, Neto, Passos, Araujo, 2015). Like all
other agile software practices, scrum is an iterative process that are done in
several sprints.

Scrum is completed by a *scrum team* of developers, a *scrum master* who acts as
the facilitator for the process and a *product owner* who owns the product.
Requirements and story points are negotiated and gathered by the team and the
product owner, which are then converted into a *product backlog*. This backlog
is split up into multiple workable *sprints backlogs* that are completed in
*sprints*. A sprint traditionally consists of a *sprint planning meeting* at the
start of a sprint to plan out the sprint, a *burndown chart* to track the
progress of the sprint and have *daily meetings* for the team to share with each
other, what was completed the previous day and what needs to be completed for
the current day. At the end of a sprint a *review & retrospective* is completed
with the team and the product owner to gather 3 main pieces of information; what
went well, what didn’t work well, what needs to be completed next sprint and to
show the product owner a shippable product of what was completed during the
sprint. (Mederios, Neto, Passos, Araujo, 2015)

 

Benefits of Scrum
-----------------

-   Daily Stand-Up Meetings help team stay focused - A brief meeting where team
    members asses where they stand in a project, by collecting 3 key pieces of
    information every meeting; what was completed yesterday, were there any
    issues, and what needs to be completed in the future. (2016)

-   Frequent Testing Conducted - Regular tests are completed to ensure the
    product is functioning correctly. These tests are traditionally done at the
    end of each sprint as part of the review process, but can be done any time
    during development to get a simple status update on the product at any time.
    (2016)

-   Easy Feedback and Changes - Feedback is received regularly throughout
    development through the use of daily stand-up meetings, so managing changes
    can be done before changes become too large. Problems can be detected
    faster, which gives a chance for the development team to be dedicate some
    time to problems to prevent them. (2016)

-   Tracking work done - Through the use of burndown charts used for the entire
    development process and for individual sprints, progress of work completed
    can be tracked and compared to the planned rate of work completed. This is
    an effective way of measuring and tracking the team’s current speed of
    progress, so as to have development step it up accordingly.

 

Disadvantages of Scrum
----------------------

-   Restricted team sizes - Team sizes between 3 to 9 members saves the members
    the loss of productivity and interaction between members with less than 3
    members and the sheer amount of coordination and complexity involved with
    teams with more than 9 members. (Schwaber, Sutherland, 2013)

-   Slacking Team Members Cause Inefficiency - If a member(s) falls behind in
    the work rate, this may impact the team’s efficiency and management of the
    project. Especially if sprints are backed-up due to lack of work can
    severely damage project tasks. (2016)

 

Reference
---------

Mederios, D. & Neto, P. & Passos, E. & Araujo, W. (2015). *Working and Playing
with Scrum. *DOI: 10.1142/S021819401550014X

 

(2016). Retrieved from
https://www.nskconsultants.com/what-are-the-pros-and-cons-of-scrum/

 

Schwaber, K. & Sutherland, J. (2013) *The scrum guide*. Retrieved
from<http://www.scrumguides.org/docs/scrumguide/v1/scrum-guide-us.pdf>
